# BKpctcrime
An analysis of crime complaints in Prospect Park and Fort Greene Park compared to surrounding precincts in Brooklyn

How Safe Are Our City Parks Today?
If we want to understand which parks in New York City have the fewest crime complaints, and thereby identify which park is (perhaps) safest, we can tabulate the park stats and come up with a hypothetical winner on the safety scale. But is it safer in the park than in its surrounding precinct(s)? Can we measure whether a Brooklyn neighborhood park is safer or less safe than the neighborhood where it is situated? Is there a difference? The environments certainly feel very different, but what does the data say?

Using NYC Open Data for Police Complaints we may analyze crime trends for Prospect Park and Fort Greene Park in Brooklyn alongside crime trends for the precincts directly surrounding these two neighborhood parks. Police Complaint Data is open to the public for all reported incidents from 2006 to the present. Beginning in 2014, the NYPD began recording parks complaints as a separate variable in their complaint data. This parks column includes large parks, playgrounds, and all green spaces in the city. The parks are still recorded as part of their dedicated precincts but can be separated for analysis by park name. 

Studying park crime alongside precinct crime is not a perfect match-up. Residential neighborhoods encounter crimes that won’t be committed in a park (ie breaking-and-entering) and parks do not have a residential population to calculate population density in the metrics. In order to address population, albeit imperfectly, I will use the estimated annual visitor population for each park, divided by 365 days, as an average daily “population” count for each park. Crime trends relative to population may then be compared between the precincts and parks. An additional metric I will include is the square acreage area for the precincts and parks to calculate crimes by geographic footprint. Looking at these trends compared to each other, and over time, may reveal indications of whether the parks are safer than the surrounding neighborhoods and whether reported crimes appear to be trending up or down over time.
After running comparisons between each park and the selected precincts, based on data described above, I will examine date-time intervals for Prospect Park and Fort Greene Park to determine which months of the year and times of the day have historically (over the past five years) recorded the most and least crime incidents in these two parks. This analysis will help us to develop a risk profile for enjoying the park throughout the year and during the day or night.
All data for this project is free, open, and available.
